

<p>Fate does not make choices, provided it exists at all. The universe is, and we are. Under many circumstances, the reason why anyone can feel special when confronted to the extraordinary is nothing short of pure happenstance.<br>Hal has been fascinated with the museum’s statue all morning. When this new exhibit suddenly opens its eyes to stare right back into theirs, their curiosity can only grow exponentially… and so will their list of problems.</p><p>Friends through childhood, friends through circumstance; both shall be challenged as an insignificant but tightly knit community must endure the whims of an unstable time and inhospitable space.</p>







<p>Okay, first off: <a href="https://archiveofourown.org/works/55218190">two cakes</a> (or <a href="https://archiveofourown.org/works/41109162">three</a>, even). Second: This fic has been in the works for months and I had <i>no</i> idea whatsoever that someone else would post today a different fic with the exact same premise, but thankfully expected differences in execution. Neither did the author know that my fic had been planned for so long lmao, we met today and it was a fantastic time, I loved their first chapter and I can’t wait to see what direction they’re going to take. Also we started trading notes and exchanging ideas, making sure that our plots will go in different directions. So go read their fic too if you like to see Hal being unfathomably screwed!</p><p>For those who do not know me, I am not a native English speaker. Among the list of potential mistakes I could make in my writing, one thing is likely to happen in the writing of this fic, and it is randomly switching between US and UK spelling/grammar. The intended spelling in this fic is US English since this is the one used by the original game, but unfortunately for my sanity, the fic I was writing the most recently prior to this one was one set in the UK and thus was entirely written using UK English. So, yeah, brain farts are bound to happen in this one. A lot. And if you like my work and see such mistakes, please do not be shy to tell me about them, even if they’re tiny typos!</p><p>Lastly, if you have come here because you used to read my writings from a different fandom: 1) I am so, so genuinely sorry, muse keeps doing what it does and what it does best is being an unpredictable and untamable bird who only does as it pleases; 2) If you have not played <i>Outer Wilds</i> yet, close this tab right now. I am dead serious. Click the fuck out and go play it instead. Whenever you want, or never play it, your choice, but <i>do not get spoiled</i>. It is one of those games where knowledge is everything, and every piece of information you know about it prior to opening the game and playing yourself is all the more game time and excitement towards the feeling of figuring it out all by yourself that you are never getting back. The more blind you are when you play it, the better, and this is why this fic’s summary is as cryptic as I could possibly make it.</p><p>PS: This is tagged “Major Character Death,” but I hope we all understand what that one means when it’s an Outer Wilds fic :’) There will be a ton of deaths, but what is death when you’re in a time loop and even the most horrendous physical injuries don’t stick?</p>